## About the Data

Streamflow data into the Great Salt Lake was used to develop the model. Daily inflow data for the Jordan, Weber, and Bear rivers was gathered from monitors administered by the United States Geographic Survey (USGS). Inflow data was collected between 1963 and 2022. Data for the Bear River was available at a downstream site, between 1971 and 1986, and an upstream site, for the entire monitoring period. The period of overlapping data shows that the downstream site had a higher flow rate than the upstream site. This is caused by streams that enter the Bear River between the two sites. Because the goal of the streamflow data is to capture the total water in the lake, the downstream monitoring location is ideal. A linear regression was performed to predict the downstream flow rate based on the upstream flow rate (p \< 0.0005). Bear River flow rate was taken from the upstream monitor but adjusted based on the results of the regression. Based on Mohammed 2012, the Davis River and a handful of other small streams contribute 6% of total streamflow entering the Great Salt Lake. The inflow of these sources was assumed to be linearly correlated with the inflow of the Bear, Weber, and Jordan rivers. Based on this assumption, an additional 'Other Streams' category was added to streamflow, equivalent to (the combined flow of the Bear, Weber, and Jordan rivers \* 0.064).

Data for rainfall, groundwater, lake elevation, consumptive use, and the bathymetry of the lake were also used to develop the model. Precipitation and temperature data was retrieved from the PRISM Climate Group based at Oregon State University. PRISM reports monthly weather data on a 4km grid. To calculate average direct precipitation, a set of 24 evenly spaced grid sections over the lake were selected. The weather data from these 24 grid sections were averaged to determine the mean monthly direct precipitation. Weather data was collected between 1900 and 2022. Groundwater inflows of 0.093km3yr-1 were found in Loving et al. 2000. Groundwater flow was assumed to be constant for all years. Lake elevation data was collected from USGS monitoring sites in the South Arm of the lake. Lake elevation data before October 24th, 2022 was collected from the Saltair Boat Harbor station. Later data were collected from the elevation gauge at the south side of the causeway. Consumptive water is defined by the USGS as "the part of water withdrawn that is evaporated, transpired, incorporated into products or crops, consumed by humans or livestock, or otherwise not available for immediate use". Yearly consumptive water use data was sourced from supplementary table 1 in Wurtsbaugh et al. 2017. Consumptive use data covered the years from 1850 to 2013. Bathymetry (submerged topography) data were downloaded from Biowest and downscaled to a resolution of 100m x 100m in QGIS for easier processing. A table relating elevation, surface area, and volume was created by calculating the volume of water in every 100m x 100m square. The table has a resolution of 0.01m of elevation. To save time, the code simply references the bathymetric table, instead of performing the complete calculation.

Evaporation and streamflow data before human consumption were derived from historic data. Evaporation was calculated using the following equation: (total evaporation = delta volume – integral inflow), with the evaporation constant being defined by (evaporation constant = total evaporation / mean surface area). A yearly evaporation constant was determined by taking the average rate of evaporation from 1993 to 2013. The years were chosen to be climatically similar to the present day while including enough years to smooth out year-to-year variation. (For further discussion of evaporation, see below). Streamflow data before human consumption was determined by adding the amount of water consumed by humans to the amount of water that enters the lake through streamflow.

Yearly averages were calculated for use in the model. Yearly pre-consumption streamflow was averaged from 1964 to 2021. Climate data were averaged from 1895 to 2022. Consumptive use data was averaged from 2003 to 2013. The consumptive use date range was chosen as a balance between using the most up-to-date data available (2013 is the most recently available data) and using a sample size large enough to smooth year-to-year inconsistencies.

