## Introduction

The Great Salt Lake is drying up. The effects of this are disastrous and wide-ranging. While climate change and the ongoing drought are partially responsible for the current water level, human water consumption is the driving factor behind the lake's decline. Because of this, policy decisions and individual actions can save the lake. There is an ongoing debate about which policies should be pursued to help the Great Salt Lake, from optimizing agricultural production to xeriscaping yards. I was curious about the relative impact and cost-effectiveness of different policies, so I created this tool.

The aim of this tool is two-fold. First, this tool illustrates the effect different policy proposals will have on the lake's water level. Second, this tool estimates the ecological, monetary, and health impacts of the predicted lake level. To do this, I built a simplified simulation, known as a model, of the Great Salt Lake. The model works by calculating the total water that enters the lake through rivers, groundwater, and direct precipitation, and the total water that leaves the lake through evaporation. First, the model adjusts water consumption based on the selected policies. Next, the model calculates the lake's predicted volume every year. Finally, a new long-run average lake level is determined. The effects of the long-run average are calculated and displayed. The model predicts long-run averages and does not account for the impact of short-term weather.

To use the model, simply select potential policies and environmental factors and then click 'run'. For policies that can have a variable amount invested, a slider is provided to fine-tune the amount to invest in each policy. Environmental sliders are displayed if the user would like to simulate the continuation, or reversal, of drought. The model is based on long-run averages for streamflow and rainfall. Streamflow over the last five years has been about 24% lower than the long-run average used to create the model, so streamflow should be set to '-24%' to simulate a continuation of the current drought. Finally, the overall human consumption slider is available for those interested in testing out different consumption scenarios untied from a specific policy. For more information about the model and the data used to create the policies and impacts, see below.
